===== PAGE 1 =====

If you like Risk II, then try
these titles today!

GAME me YEAR
EDITION

Download free tial Download free tial

The manual begins on the next page>

===== PAGE 2 =====

TABLE OF Camas

Chapter 1: Game Setup ..
System Requirements , . . .
How to Install the Game

How to Install DirectX® .
How to Start the Game ..-...-.....
How to View the ReadMe File... 0... 5.

Chapter 2: Getting Started
Quick Start... ...
Tutorials z

Chapter 3: Classic RISK ys. Same Time RISK .
An Overview of Classic RISK... 000.5
An Overview of Same Time RISK ..-...--

Chapter 4: Single Player of Multiplayer -
Playing Against Computer Opponents .

The Computer Opponents . . ..
Single-Player Game c
RISK Tournament... ...-.- . + -
Hot-Seat Game
Multiplayer over a LAN ........-...

Chapter 5: Game Preferences ..-.......
Video Preferences ose
Audio Preferences”

Chapter 6: Game Options and Variations .
Three Different Game Objectives . -
World Domination RISK . ....-.
Mission RISK . 2... 656505 eens

The Classic RISK Il Missions
The Same Time Missions ... ..

Capital RISK . .

Chapter 7: Three Ways to Allocate Territories
Random Allocation... . .

Territory Grab
Election

BRR Sem rah Vine ad

===== PAGE 3 =====

Chapter 8: RISK Card Trading . ..
Ascending Armies ...,...
Ascending by One
Set Value... 2.0.04.

Chapter 9: Playing the aie ’
What's in a Game Round? ..
Classic RISK: A Game Tum -

Reinforcement Phase
The Bartle Phase... ,
The Tactical Move Phase

Dice Rules in Classic RISK
‘Same Time RISK: A Game Turn
Diplomacy Phase . . .
Reinforcement Phase
The Bartle Phase... .
The Tactical Move Phase
Dice Rules in Same Time RISK
The RISK II Tournament -
Points System .......
The 16-Game Tournament

1-Com in Classic RISK -
Player Information and Stats.
‘The Battle View . .
Chapter 10: Strategies and Tactics .
Classic RISK ..
Same Time RISK
Appendix: The History of RISK .
Technical Support . .

===== PAGE 4 =====

Cxapter 1: GAME SETUP
System Requirements

RISK II requires the following minimum system requirements:

Pentium® 166 MHz CPU

Windows® 95/98

32 MB RAM

4X Speed CD-ROM drive

Hard drive (60 MB free)

2 MB Super VGA card capable of 800 x 600 resolution and
16-bit color (High Color)

DirectX*-compatible sound card

DirectX® version 7.0 or higher (included on CD)

Mouse and keyboard

RISK II recommended system requirements are as follows:

RL

GZ

.
.

Pentium® 233 MMX CPU

Windows® 95/98

64 MB RAM

16X Speed CD-ROM drive

Hard drive (200 MB free)

4 MB Super VGA card capable of 800 x 600 resolution
DirectX*-compatible sound card

DirectX® version 7.0 or higher (included on CD)
Mouse and keyboard

K II requires either of the following to play a multiplayer game:

LAN (Local Area Network)
Internet

How to Install the Game
To install RISK Il:

1.
2
3,

Start Windows® on your computer,

Insert the RISK II disc into your CD-ROM drive.

If AutoPlay is enabled on your computer, the RISK II installation
screen will appear automatically. If not, double click on the “My
Computer” icon on your Windows" desktop, then double-click on

===== PAGE 5 =====

the icon for your CD-ROM drive. If the installation screen still
does not appear at this point, locate the SETUP.EXE file on the
RISK Il CD-ROM and double-click on it.

4. Follow the on-screen instructions to install RISK II.

How to Install DirectX*

RISK II requires DirectX® 7.0 or higher to run the game. If you do not
have DirectX* 7.0 or higher installed on your computer, click “Install
DirectX” when asked if you would like to install it. You can re-install
DirectX® from the RISK Il CD-ROM ar any time.

How to Install DirectX® Media 6.0

RISK II requires DirectX® Media 6.0 to run. If you do not have DirectX"
Media 6.0 installed on your system, click “Install DirectX Media 6.0"
when asked if you would like to install it. You can reinstall DirectX® from
the RISK II CD-ROM at any time,

How to Start the Game

To play the game, insert the RISK II dise into your CD-ROM drive and
then click on Start > Programs > MicroProse > RISK II. Note: You must
have the RISK II disc in your CD-ROM drive to play the game.

How to View the ReadMe File

The RISK I] CD-ROM has a ReadMe file that is installed onto your hard
drive during the installation process, This file contains the License
Agreement, as well as the latest information about the game and any last
minute changes. To view this file, click the Start button on your Windows
taskbar, then select Programs > MicroProse > RISK Il > ReadMe.

CHAPTER 2: GETTING STARTED

RISK II has been designed to be intuitive and user-friendly. Should you
run into trouble or simply want to learn more about the game, look for the
tutorials that will guide you through the game's main features. These are
described in the Tutorials section on page 7. Read Chapter 10: Strategies
and Tactics for hints and tips from the game's designers.

===== PAGE 6 =====

Quick Start

The quickest way to start
RISK II is to leave all of the
option screens set to their
default settings for a while.
I'll be easier if you change
these after you've played a
few games of RISK II.

After the intro scene, the
Main Menu will appear.

Click the Single Player button
to choose the type of RISK IL
game you want to play,

Click on either “Classic” or
“Same Time.” Then click the
Play button to continue to
the player sign-in screen.

If this is the first time you
are playing RISK II, you will
need to add your player
name to the player list. After
you type your name, press
the Enter key. Then click the
Play burton, and your game
will be set up automatically.
Simply follow the on-screen
prompts and, in seconds, you
will be playing your first
game of RISK Il.

===== PAGE 7 =====

Tutorials
RISK I] is equipped with a multitude of tutorials to help you understand
and use all of the features contained in the game. Click the Tutorials
button at the Main Menu to go to the Tutorials screen. To learn more
about a topic, click on it in the Topics panel,

The following topics are covered in these tutorials:

Tell me about the user interface
1. How do | manipulate the map and the globe?
2. What information can be overlaid on the map and globe?
3. Whar information can I get about other players?

How do territories get allocated to players?
1. Random Deal
2. Territory Grab
3. Election

Tell me about the computer opponents
1. How do I select computer players to play against?
2. How does the RISK Tournament work?
3. How do | ally with a computer opponent using |-Com?

Classic RISK Tutorials

1. Overview
2. What game options can | choose from in Classic RISK?
3. How do | bring more troops in to play?
4. How do | use my RISK Cards?
5. How do | attack another player?
6. How are battles resolved?
7. Resolving Battles — Dice Comparisons
8. What is a Tactical Move?
9. Mission RISK

10. Capital RISK

11. World Domination

===== PAGE 8 =====

Same Time RISK Tutorials

1. Overview

2. What game options can | choose from in Same Time RISK?
3. How do | bring more troops in to play?
4. What is Restricted Reinforcement?

5. How do | use my RISK Cards?

6. How do | attack another player?

7. Whar is a Surge Attack?

8. Resolving battles — Dice

9. Resolving battles — Dice Comparisons
10. What is a Tactical Move?
11. Missions
12. Capital RISK
13. World Domination

CuapTer 3: Ciassic RISK vs. SAME
Time RISK

Though there are many gameplay options within RISK II, there are two

basic game types:

Classic Classic is the world-renowned classic game with all of
the features and elements of the classic board game.
Fans of the board game will not be disappointed, as
the Classic game has never looked this good and is
presented with a variety of options.

Same Time RISK _ If you are looking for a fresh challenge, you will be
thrilled to discover the delights of Same Time RISK,
in which each player carries out all of the game tasks
at the same time. Same Time RISK takes the classic
game to the next level of strategy gaming.

===== PAGE 9 =====

Simply click on the chosen
game type on the Select Game
Type screen. Click on the Play
burton to continue to the next
menu.

An Overview of Classic RISK

RISK II is the all-time classic game of strategy and world domination. You

can play RISK either a
as a Hot-
LAN (local area network),

a single-player game against computer opponents,
eat game for up to 8 players around one computer, or over a

You can win in Classic RISK in
three different ways: dominate
a percentage of the world,
capture enemy capitals, or
complete a secret mission.

Play takes place on a global
map divided into six continents
and 42 territories (48 if you
switch on the new additions)
The defense of thes
must be planned carefully, or
certain victory may easily
become defeat. Heavy casualties
may result with the unexpected
loss of a key territory

or continent. cs

territories

===== PAGE 10 =====

Winning this game requires
bold military maneuvers and
skill, but even the most
advanced tacticians may find
that the luck of the virtual dice
has deserted them. Allies may
be few and far between as mis-
sions include the annihilation
of opponents. In this game, all

1 players face the same risks.
9

An Overview of Same Time RISK

RISK II features a Same Time mode. Whether it's reinforcing, issuing battle
orders or making a tactical move, all players carry out the same:
the same time, thus removing the frustration of waiting for your turn. Same
Time RISK brings new missions, new nule variations and new territories, all
of which enhance your experience, thereby taking you closer to the reality
of Napoleonic war gaming.

ctions at

Same Time RISK uses a
modified battle system that
allows multiple armies to
attack a single territory. This
change makes the gaming
more realistic and hugely
exciting. In fact, it is now
possible to have seven armies
simultaneously fighting for
supremacy in a single territory!

===== PAGE 11 =====

A new dice mechanism has also
been added to Same Time
RISK. With the addition of
12-sided dice, the player is
treated to a larger variation of
battle types and the potential
of both big wins and huge loss-
es on the throw of just one die.
Same Time RISK takes this
classic game to the next level
without removing its appeal
and simplicity.

CHapTER 4: SINGLE PLAYER OR
MULTIPLAYER

You can play RISK II in one of three distinct ways:
* Solo against computer opponents
* Hot-Seat against human and computer opponents on the
same computer
* Multiplayer against human opponents over a LAN

To choose, click the Single
Player button, the Hot-Seat
button or the Networked button
at the Main Menu. You will
then be taken to additional
menus to set up your preferred
game settings.

===== PAGE 12 =====

Pieviog hasieai Computer Oppaasiite

Solo and Hot-Seat can be
played with the addition of
computer opponents. The
computer players in RISK IL,
though Napoleonic in theme,
are state-of-the-art Al oppo-
nents. RISK Il is equipped
with a modular Al system,
which plays a game of RISK II
convincingly and elegantly.
The many different computer
players generate controlled unpredictability, and their long-term memories
extend over many games. You can pit your wits against 16 different Al
players, each of whom has a specific character profile and a unique RISK
playing style.

The Computer Opponents

The descriptions that follow give you a basic understanding of each
general's character and overall demeanor. These descriptions do not,
however, give you enough information to know each computer opponent
intimately — and thereby allow easy wins.

Some of these characters when pushed into a comer, like humans, will

react unpredictably. Therefore, consider the following descriptions not as
rules to live by, but rather as “gathered intelligence.”

Campbell Of the 16 generals in RISK II, Campbell has a reputation
for being cautious but highly focused, especially in
achieving his mission objectives. Some might say he
allows his judgement to be clouded by his desire to
complete the mission. Campbell is not a general to
bear a grudge. Of all your adversaries, he is the most
stable of opponents, with a low tendency to erratic and
unpredictable behavior.

Mackenzie — Mackenzie, in contrast to Campbell, has a strong memory
and never forgets the player who crosses him. Strangely,
though, he does like to entrust his troops’ safety to alliances,

===== PAGE 13 =====

Wellington

Bonaparte

Marmont

perhaps due in part to his high regard for honor and all
that it entails. Mackenzie is highly aware of his mission
and can be very aggressive if a win is in sight. He isa
relatively stable opponent,with a below-average likelihood
of erratic and unpredictable behavior.

Wellington is a general of huge repute and is not an
opponent to underestimate. He is highly “mission aware”
and will not let his ego get the better of him. He makes no
snap decisions and considers his war plan from every
conceivable angle. His need to deliberate has become the
“Wellington signature.” Wellington does, however, have an
unpredictable side and can sometimes start an action that
appears to be “outside of his game plan” — or so one might
think. This man is truly one of RISK II’s “top drawer”
generals and is a fearsome opponent.

Bonaparte has a reputation for revenge and is regarded by all
those who have faced him as being highly aggressive and
competitive. He strikes quickly and without warming, often
to the detriment of his own armies, Though his casualties
are often high, his reputation is one of a winner and a
successful, if a little cavalier, strategist. Bonaparte has an
extreme tendency to be driven by his heart rather than his
logical mind, which means he should be treated with
caution. Unpredictable and erratic behavior is a Bonaparte
trademark, one that has earned him a place at the top.

Marmont is the biggest risk taker, a truly dangerous general
who has an unsurpassed reputation for speedy, ill-considered
but nevertheless devastating attacks. He considers little for
his opponent's moves and for the loss of his own troops.
Marmont is not highly focused on his mission and can, on
occasion, be very unpredictable,

Barbacena is another risk taker, but unlike Marmont, is not
quite as keen to leave his soldiers’ destinies in the lap of the
gods, Barbacena is one of those generals who, though aware
of his individual mission, is much more focused on the
bigger picture of world domination. Barbacena is

===== PAGE 14 =====

D'Erlon

Sherbrooke

Aubert

unquestionably an aggressor; worse still, he has a good
memory and loves revenge. He is a very worthy adversary,
but is predictable in his desire to fight to the end,

D’Erlon is probably the most cautious of the RISK II
generals. He is an opponent who will rarely run the risk of
losses, unless the odds are absolutely in his favor. He has a
very high regard for honor and all that it brings. D’Erlon
will retreat and suffer a loss of ego in a battle where the
tables have been turned against him. He reinforces his
armies thoughtfully and focuses on bolstering his defenses as
opposed to building mass invasion forces, He is a strategic
but perhaps overcautious opponent with a very stable

mind and a commitment to proven planning.

Maransin is a general with a desire to strike first and
consider the strategy second, This general has no difficulty
in swallowing his pride and can therefore retreat from any
ill-considered battle, especially if the odds turn against him.
This “charge in and leave quietly” style, together with his
poor memory, has earned Maransin the reputation of an
erratic but very dangerous neighbor. He is one to be
watched and treated with caution.

Solignac is one of the less experienced generals. To
compound his lack of experience, Solignac has a bad
memory and a habit of letting his bordering opponents
build up without countering the threat, He does, however,
have youthful enthusiasm on his side and should not be
underestimated as an opponent.

Sherbrooke is a general of the old school. He is the most
honorable of the opponents. Sherbrooke loves to make
alliances and will nearly always honor the agreement. He is
a slow and methodical strategist with a long memory, He
harbors a grudge and a hatred of deceit. With his extensive
experience in the field, Sherbrooke is not the kind of
general to fight erratically. His trademark is consistency.
Aubert cares little for alliances. Though he is not a
vengeful player, he has little regard for the rule book.
Aubert is, however, a very dangerous opponent who has

by far the greatest tendency to become unstable and

===== PAGE 15 =====

Taupin

Freire

Vauban

unpredictable. He is considered to be the most erratic of the
RISK generals and is a danger to all around him.

Spencer is a general who lives by the rule book. He uses all
of the classic moves and never enters an ill-considered
battle. Spencer is keen to strike alliances and is generally
honorable, When the odds are against him, though, honor
may become a casualty of war and any who have foolishly
trusted him may find themselves to be the unsuspecting
fodder for his cannons.

Taupin is a true warmonger. He is both calculating and
devastating. His battle plans are always well considered, and
his distinctly unstable nature gives him an unpredictable
edge that keeps all opponents on their guard. His constant
need to monitor his borders makes him a real threat to all.
Taupin's first and foremost objective is to achieve his
mission. This almost unhealthy obsession is his only
Achilles Heel.

Freire, like Solignac, is inexperienced in the ways of war.
The old school of strategic warfare for him is tired and out
moded; honor to Freire is an inconvenient load to carry, He
is therefore highly untrustworthy. Freire, though a promising
general, has much to leam, especially regarding his hostile
borders. If left unchecked, they will swell and invade — a

lesson he seems not to have leamt as yet.

Vauban is an opponent who lives by the sword and with the
words, “Do unto others.” He has no time for honor and,
when crossed, is a fiercely vengeful general. Being fast and
decisive together with a large dose of aggression make
Vauban a formidable enemy. Opponents should be acutely
aware of his ability to remain constantly in control of border
threats. They should also be wary of Vauban’s pet strategy of
deep, thrusting attacks. This general is definitely from the
top drawer.

Baird has little honor and much aggression. His desire to

avenge deceit is huge, coupled with a highly accurate
memory and an extremely unstable character. Baird is
among the most dangerous generals. Warmongering to

===== PAGE 16 =====

Baird would appear to be almost of greater importance
than the mission itself, a dangerous preconception that
surrounding armies should heed,

Single-Player Game

Playing a single-player game of RISK II couldn't be easier, Just follow the
Quick Start guide in Chapter 2: Getting Started. After playing a few
games, try changing some of the options to vary the gameplay.

RISK Tournament

RISK Tournament gives the
player a challenging series of
games that have been designed
by die-hard RISK stalwarts,
You have 16 separate games to
fight through. As you progress
through the tournament, you
will be exposed to new game
variations and options. The
early games are of a classic
flavor, but as you continue
through the tournament, Same Time challenges are introduced. To start

a tournament, select Tournament at the Select Game Type screen.

If this is your first Tournament
game, you will be shown the
start level. Click the Play
button to begin. If you have
played a Tournament game
before, you can either continue
with the existing Tournament
or start afresh with a new
campaign name.

===== PAGE 17 =====

Hot-Seat Game
Hot-Seat is a term used for games in which multiple human players sit
around one computer playing the same game. You can play RISK II in this
mode with up to 8 eight people simultaneously. We recommend, however,
that you start playing in Hot-Sear mode by using the classic turn-based
game system first. Turn-based is less complex to play, and players can
decide and implement their strategy without the need for secrecy from
their opponents,

To start a Hot-Seat game, click on the Hot-Sear button at the Main Menu.
This will take you to the game setup screens, which should be completed as
per the Single Player game setup, until you reach the Player Select screen.

All players wishing to take part
in the Hot-Seat game must sign
in here. After all players are
signed in, click the Play button
and the computer will set up the
game. After setup, follow the
onscreen prompts as you play.

Multiplayer over a LAN

One of the grear features in RISK II is the ability co play the game against
your friends across a LAN (Local Area Network), This feature allows all of
the Classic and Same Time options to be played by up to 8 players simulta-
neously across a network.

To start a network game, click the Network button at the Main Menu. This
will take you to the LAN Selection screen.

===== PAGE 18 =====

At the LAN Game Setup
screen, you must choose
whether you wish to “host”
the game or “join” a game. If
you are hosting the game,
first click “Host Game.”
Then type your name in the
“Player Name:" box and
press the Enter key, Give
your multiplayer game a
name by typing something in
the “Session Name:” box, When you're done, click the Next button to
continue to the ‘Game Type’ screens.

When you have chosen the
game type and

preferences, click the

Play button to continue

to the Network Players
screen, You will see your
opponents logging into

the game.

When all players are visible
on your screen, click the
Play button and the game
will begin.

===== PAGE 19 =====

Note: As host, you can click the Play button as soon as additional play-
ers have logged into your game, so you have the choice as to how many
players may take part in your game. You must have at least three players
to start the game.

To Join a LAN Game

You will be taken to the LAN Game Setup screen, where you must
choose whether you wish to “host” the game or “join” a game. If you are
joining a game, first click “Join Game.” Then type your name in the
“Player Name:” box and press the Next button.

CHAPTER 5: GAME PREFERENCES

Click on the Preferences button
‘on the Main Menu to adjust a
number of game and system
preferences. The Preferences
screen contains a series of
tabbed pages labeled Video,
Audio, Controls, Tutorials and
Miscellaneous. Click on the tab
of interest to gain access to
those controls.

===== PAGE 20 =====

Video Preferences

Battle View

Territory Zooms

Fast AI

Fast Dice

Map Zooming

Select this to see the battle being fought on a

3-D landscape of the territory concerned. The view
will be populated with 3-D models of each player's
infantry, cavalry and artillery units. Switching this
feature off will result in battles being resolved in a
panel over the map or globe and will also deactivate
the related territory zoom option.

Select this to see play being taken down to the
battlefield via a fly-to sequence, unique to each
territory, Each zoom sequence ends in the battle
view with the territory concerned filling the screen.
Switch it off for a faster game.

Resolves Battles between Al opponent quickly
on the map.

Animating arrows are used to illustrate each set of
dice comparisons. When enabled, this option causes
all arrow.sequences to animate much more quickly,
thus speeding up each battle.

Allows the game map to be zoomed in and out for
more versatile interaction. Switch this feature off co
increase the game's frame rate.

Audio Preferences

===== PAGE 21 =====

Music Volume Move the slider to control the volume of the
background soundtrack. Moving the slider to the
extreme left switches the sound off.

Effects Volume — Move the slider to control the volume of the in-game
sound effects. Moving the slider to the extreme left

switches the sound off.

Voice Volume Move the slider to control the volume of all narrated
prompts.

Stereo Audio Switching this option off will halve the processing

time needed and therefore will speed up performance

‘on slow machines.

Note: Some of these options can be changed while playing a game. To
access these options mid game, simply hit the Escape key. This will bring
up the In-Game menu, above the Quit button. (DO NOT HIT THE
QUIT BUTTON UNLESS YOU WISH TO QUIT YOUR GAME.)
Three sliders controlling sound and music will be found together with a
series of boxes. By moving the slider and checking or unchecking these
boxes, you can adjust many of the options listed here.

CHAPTER 6: GAME OPTIONS AND
VARIATIONS

Three Different Game Objectives

RISK II supports three different game objectives, each playable in either
Classic mode or Same Time mode. Each of the game types poses a very dif-
ferent and unique challenge. The first is World Domination, the longest
and most classic of all the RISK II game types. Mission RISK is an objective-
based version of this classic game. Capital RISK is a game of real skill with
each player having a capital city to defend. A more in-depth description of
each game variant follows.

World Domination RISK

World Domination is now available in both Classic and Same Time

modes. It is the most popular version of the RISK game. The objective,
though self-explanatory, is by no means an easy task. World Domination

is only achieved when a single player occupies every territory on

the map. In doing so, he or she must have defeated all other

opponents: no small task. Ge

===== PAGE 22 =====

World Domination is the longest and most involved of the RISK game
variants. It requires careful planning before starting the battle scenario.
Since initial army placement will set the stage for the battles you

will be fighting, great consideration should be given to this stage

of the game. Remember that placement could decide your fate.

To provide several possible variations to the World Domination game,
you can adjust many options before starting a game. These options are
covered below and throughout this manual.

60% World Domination has
been developed to reduce
the game length but increase
the tension of near-win
situations. The objective
differs only in the victory
conditions. When playing
the 60% game with 42
territories in play, the
victory conditions are for

a single player to occupy

25 territories. If 48 rerritoriesare in play, the victory conditions are for a
single player to occupy 33 territories.

80% Domination

Again, the objective differs
only in the victory condi-
tions. When playing the
80% game with 42 territories
in play, the victory condi-
tions are for a single player
to occupy 29 territories. If 48
territories are in play, the
victory conditions are for a
single player to occupy 38
territories.

===== PAGE 23 =====

Mission RISK

This is the full World
Domination game. Whether
you have the 42 or 48 territo-
ties in play, your objective is
the same: take them all over
and rule the world!

Mission RISK is available in
both Classic and Same Time
modes,

The mission sets were created
to add an element of sec
and to force players to second-
guess their opponents. Mission
RISK is also a shorter game
and can sometimes be played
inside an hour. The objective
of Mission RISK is unique to

each player and is defined on the mission objective statement (which is
revealed to each player between the territory allocation phase and initial
troop deployment ar the start of the game). In order for any player to claim
victory, he or she must achieve all of the requirements set out in the
assigned individual mission. The available missions for the Classic game of

RISK II are listed below,
The Classic RISK II Missions

The mission objectives within RISK II are specific to each player. Each

mission falls into one of two themes:

1. The first theme is the destruction of an opponent's color, such as
“Destroy all Green Troops.” This objective is mostly

self-explanatory. If, however, Green was destroyed by &

===== PAGE 24 =====

another player, the owner of the ‘Destroy Green’ mission would
still win the game.

The second theme is the taking and holding of multiple
territories or continents. Sometimes there will also be a minimum
troop occupation per territory in these missions. There is no
secondary objective.

The 15 missions are:

Mission 1

Destroy all (color) troops belonging to {Player}. There are

8 instances of this mission in the deck. If more than one is
chosen by the computer in the same game, the target players will
be different.

Valid target colors/players: Any color/player combination that is
playing in the current game except you.

‘Target determined & mission revealed: Immediately after
territory allocation, but before initial troop deployment.

Victory can be claimed: At the end of your turn.

Victory is achieved if: The player named in the mission

is destroyed.

Mission 2

Conquer the continents of Asia and Africa. There is only one
instance in the deck for this mission.

Mission revealed: Immediately after territory allocation, but
before initial troop deployment.

Victory can be claimed: At the end of your turn.

Victory is achieved if: You occupy at least both of the above
continents at the end of the game round.

Mission 3

.
.

Conquer the continents of North America and Australia.
There is only one instance in the deck for this mission.
Mission revealed: Immediately after territory allocation, but
before initial troop deployment.

Victory can be claimed: At the end of your turn.

Victory is achieved if: You occupy at least both of the above
continents at the end of the game round.

===== PAGE 25 =====

Mission 4
.

Conquer the Continents of Asia and South America. There is
‘only one instance in the deck for this mission.

Mission revealed: Immediately after territory allocation, but
before initial troop deployment.

Victory can be claimed: At the end of your turn.

Victory is achieved if: You occupy at least both of the above
continents at the end of the game round.

Mission 5

Conquer the Continents of North America and Africa. There is
only one instance in the deck for this mission.

Mission revealed: Immediately after territory allocation, but
before initial troop deployment.

Victory can be claimed: At the end of your turn.

Victory is achieved if: You occupy at least both of the above
continents at the end of the game round,

Mission 6

.

Occupy 24 territories of your choice. There is only one instance
in the deck for this mission.

Mission revealed: Immediately after territory allocation, but
before initial troop deployment. This is also a fallback mission

on the “destroy color/player” mission. In the event of an
opponent being destroyed by another player, this mission replaces
the original,

* Victory can be claimed: At the end of your turn.
* Victory is achieved if: You occupy at least 24 territories at the
end of the game round.
Mission 7

Conquer 18 territories of your choice and occupy each with
at least 2 armies. There is only one instance in the deck for
this mission.

Mission revealed: Immediately after territory allocation, but
before initial troop deployment.

Victory can be claimed: At the end of your turn.

Victory is achieved if: You occupy at least 18 territories with at
least two armies in each by the end of the game round.

===== PAGE 26 =====

The Same Time Missions

For the Same Time game of RISK II, there are further missions to choose
from. These new missions are, however, more involved and require
further consideration. The Same Time missions take the RISK player
closer to real war-game strategies and as such are more difficult to win.
Victory cannot be claimed until the end of Game Round 3.

The full list of missions and victory conditions are below:
Mission 1

Destroy all {color} troops belonging to {Player}. There are two
instances of this mission in the deck. If both are chosen by the
computer in the same game, the target players will be different.
Valid target colors/players: Any color/player combination that is
playing in the current game except you,

Target determined & mission revealed: Immediately after
territory allocation, but before initial troop deployment.

Victory can be claimed: At the end of the game round.

Victory is achieved if: You have captured the last territory that
belonged to the targer player or the last territory of an opponent
who destroyed the target player before you. Please note that it is
possible for some troops belonging to the original target player to
be in transit when the last territory belonging to the target player
is captured. If these troops succeed in their attack on another
territory and survive the game round, the player has not been
eliminated. If they are unsuccessful and are defeated in battle,
however, the target player is eliminated.

Mission 2

Destroy the player who currently holds {territory}. If you are the
current owner, destroy the previous owner of that territory, There
are two instances of this mission in the deck. If both are chosen by
the computer in the same game, the target players will be different.
Selecting target player: The game selects a territory that is owned
by an opponent at random. It is this player that is your target.
Target determined & mission revealed: Immediately after
territory allocation, but before initial troop deployment.

Victory can be claimed: At the end of a game round.

Victory is achieved if: You have captured the last territory that
belonged to the target player or if an opponent destroys the current
target player before you.

===== PAGE 27 =====

Changed target determined by: Player that captured the last
named territory on the mission card that belonged to the current
target player becomes the new target. Note that it is possible for
some troops belonging to the original target player to be in transit
when the last territory belonging to the target player is captured.
If these troops succeed in their attack on another territory and
survive the game round, the player has not been eliminated. If
they are unsuccessful and are defeated in battle, however, the
target player is eliminated.

Mission 3

Conquer and hold a continent of your choice and establish a
presence in each of the other continents. There is only one
instance in deck for this mission.

Mission revealed: Immediately after territory allocation, but
before initial troop deployment.

Victory can be claimed: At the end of a game round.

Victory is achieved if: You occupy at least one entire continent
and you have control of at least one territory in each of the five
remaining continents.

Mission 4

Conquer and hold the continents of {Continent} and
{Continent}. There are two instances of this mission in the deck.
If both are chosen by the computer in the same game, the second
instance will have different target continents.

Valid target continents: Selected at random from Asia and
South America, Africa and North America, Europe and Australia,
or Europe and South America.

Target determined & mission revealed: Immediately after
territory allocation, but before initial troop deployment.

Victory can be claimed: At the end of a game round.

Victory is achieved if: You have captured and hold all territories
within the named continents,

===== PAGE 28 =====

Mission 5

Conquer and hold one of the following continents and cight
other connected territories of your choice. There are three
instances of this mission in the deck.

Valid target continent: You can choose any one of the continents of
Asia, North America or Europe.

‘Target determined & mission revealed: Immediately after
territory allocation, but before initial troop deployment.
Victory can be claimed: At the end of a game round.

Victory is achieved if: You have captured one of the named
continents and own at least eight connected territories outside
this continent. The eight territories need not be connected to
the continent.

Mian

Conquer and hold the continent of {Continent}, and conquer
and hold the named territories. There are three instances of this
mission in the deck. If the computer chooses two or more of these
missions in the same game, each instance selected will have
different target continents and territories.

Valid target: The computer will choose a continent and three
territories from the following list:

Asia, Northwest Territory, North Africa and Northern Europe
North America, South Africa, Brazil and Siam

Europe, Afghanistan, Indonesia and Alaska

South America, Greenland, Ukraine and Kamchatka

Africa, Scandinavia, Alberta and Argentina

Australasia, Yakutsk, Southern Europe and East Africa

Target determined & mission revealed: Immediately after
territory allocation, but before initial troop deployment.

Victory can be claimed: At the end of a game round.

Victory is achieved if: You have captured and hold the selected

continent and territories.

===== PAGE 29 =====

Capital RISK
Capital RISK is the third and
final game variant of RISK II
and can be played using either
Same Time or Classic game
mechanics, The rules are
simple: each player chooses a
territory to become his or her
capital city. When all players
(including computer players)
have chosen a capital, the

position of each capital city is
disclosed to all players.

The objective for Capital RISK varies depending on the number of players
in the game:
* For 3 or 4 players, the objective is to capture two opposing capitals,
* For 5 or 6 players, the objective is to capture three opposing capitals.
© For 7 or 8 players, the objective is to capture four opposing capitals.
In all cases, the game can only be won if the player still has control of his
or her own capital city as well.
Losing control of your capital does not mean all is lost. It will, however,
severely impede your chances of success through the need to not only
capture your opponents’ capitals but also to recapture your own.
In Capital RISK, all players’ capitals remain secret until all armies have

been placed. Not giving your position away through troop deployment is
not easy, though a badly defended capital is almost certainly going to spell
the end to your global domination desires.

CHAPTER 7: THREE Ways TO ALLOCATE
TERRITORIES

In RISK HL, there are three ways of allocating territories, The most simple is
Random Allocation, followed by Territory Grab and finally Election. All of
these territory allocation systems are explained on the next few pages.

===== PAGE 30 =====

Random Allocation

Random Allocation is the
most simple means of
starting a RISK Il game.
Once you have selected who
to play against and chosen
any other options, you are
taken to the map. At this
point, all available territories
are evenly divided among
the players. (Although some-
times a player may receive one fewer or one more territory than all the
other players, this is due to the number of territories not dividing evenly
by the number of players in all game variants.) Players then begin to
reinforce their occupied territories with their remaining troops. This
reinforcement continues until all players have placed their starting
troops. Then the game begins.

Territory Grab

In Territory Grab, once you
have selected who to play
against, and chosen any
other options, the total game
map becomes visible to all
players, who then in turn
choose a territory to own.
This continues until all
players have an even number
of territories and there are no
more unoccupied territories. (Although sometimes a player may receive
one fewer or one more tetritory than all the other players, this is due to
the number of territories not dividing evenly by the number of players in
all game variants.) Players then begin to reinforce their occupied ternito-
ties with their remaining troops. This reinforcement continues until all
players have placed their starting troops. Then the game begins.

===== PAGE 31 =====

The election system provides a
more strategic means of deter-
mining territory ownership at
the start of the game. Since the
elections takes some time to
process, players should prepare
for this, particularly now that
the world map has up to 48 ter-
titories. You can, however, save
the results of an election setup
for use in subsequent games.

The Election process uses two main features: Election Points and
Influence.

Election Points are awarded evenly to each player at the start of the
game. The Points are for use in the player's attempts to win power in
selected territories, thereby allowing occupation at the start of the game.
The potential influence that a territory or group of territories has over
elections in a neighboring territory affects “once only” the amount of
election points needed to occupy a territory.

To ensure that each player has at least one territory, players are each
assigned one randomly selected territory.

Each player starts the game with the same number of Election Points.
The exact number changes from game to game, depending on the
number of players and the number of territories selected on the world
map. The calculation is designed to keep the average price in election
points to 100 per territory. If you use more than 100 points to secure a
territory, you know you have paid more than the going rate!

Territories become occupied by a player as a result of the initial random
selection of a territory and as the direct result of territory elections. Each
occupied territory has the ability to “influence” a subsequent election in
a neighboring territory.

Each territory offers influence equivalent to 10 Election Points. The
table at the cop of the next page illustrates the benefits of combining
influence from a number of territories at the same time.

===== PAGE 32 =====

Territories “influencing”
the election

Effect of the “influence” 10 20 30 40 50 60

in Election Points

Ic is important to note that a territory can influence an election in just
one neighboring territory. Once influence has been used, a territory can-
not influence the outcome of any more elections.
The election process functions are as follows:

1. One of the remaining territories is selected at random.

2. Players bid with their Election Points, using “influence” from
neighboring territories when applicable.
3. The Election is ended when the bid goes no higher. The highest
bidder then occupies the territory.
4. The Election Points and “influence” used by the victorious
player are deducted. Ownership of territory is handed to the
relevant player.
5. This process is repeated until all territories have held their
elections and are therefore occupied.
6. If nobody bids for the territory and the time limit expires, the
territory will be randomly allocated to one of the players.
Each time an election concludes, the victorious player has the number of
Election Points equivalent to the bid deducted from his or her running
total. If the player has any neighboring territories that were able to offer
influence, the correct amount will be automatically deducted. Any terri-
tories used lose their ability to influence any subsequent elections.

To access any of these territory allocation types, go to the Change
Options screen. There you can select any of the above types.

Making Bids for Territories

When the first randomly chosen territory is selected by the computer,
the timer bar takes 8 seconds to fill, during which time the election is
guaranteed not to end. In addition, all players are able to start bidding.
Bids can be raised by 5 or 10 points.

===== PAGE 33 =====

When the bar has filled up, the bar changes from orange to red and
flashes. This period can last for a maximum of a further 15 seconds.

All applicable influence points from neighboring territories are automati-
cally applied to the bidding process, thus reducing the amount of election
points used during that territory election.

Election Points

The total number of Election Points available for the clection phase is
calculated at 100 Election Points per active territory (4,200 to 4,800
depending on the number of territories that are active in the current
game). Therefore, the number of election points that each player starts
the election with varies with the number of territories and the number of
players. The table below gives some examples.

Active Territories Active Players Total Points

Please note that points per player are rounded down to the nearest 10.
In short, the player should expect to use 100 points per territory.

Trading Unused Election Points for Extra Battalions
Any unused Election Points can be traded for extra battalions at a rate
of 1 extra battalion for every 50 unused points. The number of extra
battalions is limited to the number of territories owned by the player

at the end of the election, thus the hoarding of Election Points has only

limited appeal. @

===== PAGE 34 =====

: =
Deploying Troops
In Classic RISK, each player takes it in turn to place a battalion,
until all troops have been deployed. In Same Time RISK, each player
deploys all of his troops secretly, in one go.

Carter 8: RISK Carp TRADING

To access any of the card trading types, go to the Change Options screen
and select any of the types below.

Players can exchange
RISK cards throughout

the reinforcement phases
of the game to gain extra
battalions. Players acquire
a RISK card by conquering
enemy territories.

When a turn is played and
a territory is conquered,
the conquering player
automatically receives a
RISK card. Conquering more than one territory still only warrants
the award of one RISK card.

This may call for some strategic planning. If you feel that you are low on
troops and have a good set of cards that could eam you much-needed
battalions, it may be better to have a short turn and concentrate on
conquering only a few enemy territories.

When trading cards, the exchange must be in sets of three. A set can be
either a set of the same three cards (three Infantry, three Artillery or
three Cavalry) of a set of cards comprised of one of each card (one
Infantry, one Cavalry and one Artillery). In addition, there is also a
card with a “question mark” on it. This card can be used as a wild card
(any of the three battalion types).

The number of battalions received by exchanging card sets varies
according to the rule set being played. The variations are Ascending,
Ascending by One and Set Value.

===== PAGE 35 =====

At the beginning of subsequent
turns, players may trade in
matched sets of cards and take
additional armies based on the
total number of sets anyone has
traded so far. The computer
will automatically apply the
correct level of reinforcement
to the trading player.

The first set traded in: 4 armies
The second set traded in: 6 armies
The third set traded in: 8 armies
The fourth set traded in: 10 armies
The fifth set traded in: 12 armies
The sixth set traded in: 15 armies

After the sixth set has been traded in, each additional set is worth five
more armies. For example, if you trade in the seventh set, you will
receive 20 armies, the eighth gets you 25 armies and so on.

If one of the cards exchanged depicts a territory currently occupied by
the player exchanging, they gain two bonus battalions. These are both
automatically placed immediately in the territory shown on the card.

If you hold five cards, you must exchange the set on your tum.

Ascending by One

Instead of increasing the value
of each matched set as in
“Ascending Armies,” the
trade-in value is increased by
only one in “Ascending by
One.” Thus the first matched
set is still worth four armies, but
the second is worth five, the
third is worth six and so on.

If one of the cards exchanged
depicts a territory currently occupied by the player exchanging,
they gain two bonus battalions. These are automatically placed
immediately upon the territory shown on the card. 6s

===== PAGE 36 =====

Using this nule requires you to be more frugal with your armies and con-
sider potential losses more seriously. When using this rule, a game of
RISK II will generally take longer to complete.

If you hold five cards, you must exchange the set on your turn.

Set Value
* Ifyou trade 3 Infantry cards, you will receive 4 battalions.
© If you trade 3 Cavalry cards, you will receive 6 battalions.
© If you trade 3 Artillery cards, you will receive 8 battalions.
© Ifyou trade 1 of each card, you will receive 10 battalions,

If any of the cards exchanged depict a territory currently occupied by the
player exchanging, that player gains two bonus battalions. These are
automatically placed immediately within the territory shown on the
card.

If you hold five cards, you must exchange the set on your turn.

CHAPTER 9: PLAYING THE GAME

What's in a Game Round?

Whether you're playing Classic RISK or Same Time RISK, each game
round consists of four distinet phases: Diplomacy, Reinforcement, Battles
and Tactical Moves,

Classic RISK: A Game Turn

Diplomacy Phase

The Diplomacy Phase of RISK II is the time in the game where players
are able to strike alliances and other such deals that may be beneficial to
them in later phases of the game. Alliances can be formed at various lev-
els with computer opponents. The system used to negotiate these deals is
known as I-Com. Please refer to the “I-Com” section later in this manual
in order to fully understand the options available to you during the
Diplomacy Phase.

===== PAGE 37 =====

Reinforcement Phase
After player setup and territory allocation, players receive reinforcements.
Reinforcements are gained in three ways:

1, You always receive battalions equal in number to one-third of the
territories your army currently occupies.

2. If you occupy the whole of a continent at the start of your tum,
you receive extra battalions. To control a continent, you must
occupy every territory in that continent. Reinforcements are
drawn as follows:

Number of Battalions
Continent Received per Turn
Australia 2
South America 2
Africa 3
Europe 5
North America 5
Asia 7

These numbers can be modified on the Options menu if desired.

You only receive extra reinforcements from controlling continents
for as long as you occupy all territories of that continent.

3. You may exchange RISK cards to gain extra battalions as discussed
above. RISK cards are acquired through taking possession of enemy
territories.

The Battle Phase

Once all reinforcements have been deployed, players can go into battle!
You may attack any territory owned by another player provided that the
territory borders one of your own territories or is linked by a dotted line.
You must have at least two battalions in the territory where the attack is to
be launched from, as one must remain in the source territory.

There is no maximum number of battalions that can be used in an attack,
and there is no limit to the amount of attacks you can make. Provided you
have sufficient forces, you may continue to attack your enemies.

The Tactical Move Phase

When you choose to finish attacking your opponents, you are given the
option of a Tactical Move Phase. Players can transfer battalions

from one territory to another, provided the territories border one

another, or are linked by a dotted line, R

===== PAGE 38 =====

Dice Rules in Classic RISK
Combat is carried out using dice. The number of dice that each player
throws is determined as described below,

The Attacking Player: The 3 Red Dice

The maximum number of dice that can be thrown is 3, regardless of
how many battalions are attacking. For example, if the attacker is
attacking with | battalion, the attacker can only use | die. If attacking
with 2 battalions, the attacker can use up to 2 dice. If attacking with 3 or
more battalions, the attacker can use 1, 2 or 3 dice. An attacking player,
therefore, can choose how many dice to attack with, Remember that the
more dice used, in most cases, the higher the potential casualty rate of
the defender. However, also note that the number of dice used defines
the minimum battalion movement into the conquered territory, that is
to say, if 3 dice were used and the attack was successful, a minimum of 3
battalions must be moved into the new territory.

The Attacking Battle Sequence

After deciding which territory to attack and with how many battalions,
the attacker clicks the Roll button as does the defender. (If the attacker
and defender are AI players, the dice are rolled automatically.) The
highest roll of the attacker's dice is then compared with the highest roll
of the defender’s dice. The higher of the compared dice wins that battle,
and the losing army removes a battalion.

Note: If the highest numbers rolled by the attacker and the defender are
equal, the attacker loses and must remove a battalion from the field.

If both players used more than | die each, the next highest rolls are then
compared, with the loser again suffering the loss of one battalion (the
equal dice rule still applies).

When a dice comparison has been resolved, and depending on the level
of success, the attacking player may choose to retreat or to continue
attacking the same territory until he or she has either defeated the
defending battalions in that territory or until he or she has too few
armies to continue the battle. The attacker may also attack different
territories with cither the same or different battalions, or he or she may
end the attack phase. There is no limit to the number of territories a
player can attack in his or her combat phase.

===== PAGE 39 =====

The Defending Player: The 2 Blue Dice
The number of dice that the defender can throw is either | or 2 depending
on how many battalions the defender has in the territory being attacked.
For example, if the defender is defending with 1 battalion, the defender
can only use | die, If defending with 2 battalions, the defender can use

2 dice. If the defender is defending with 3 or more battalions, the defender
can use either 1 or 2 dice. Remember that the more dice used, in most
cases, the higher the potential casualty rate of the defender and the quicker
the battle.

The Defending Battle Sequence

If either a human or Al player decides to attack you, you will cither see
the commencing battle or the Fast Dice dialog box. In either case, you will
be required to roll your defending dice in an attempt to protect your tetri-
tory against the invading army, The highest roll of the attacker's dice is
compared with your defending dice. The higher of the compared dice wins
thar battle, and the losing army loses a battalion.

Note: If the highest numbers rolled by the attacker matches the defender’s
dice, the attacker loses and must remove a battalion from the field.

If both players used more than 1 die each, the next highest rolls are then
compared, with the loser again suffering the loss of one battalion (as the
equal dice rule still applies here).

A defender cannot retreat from an attacking army. You have no choice in
this matter: you must fight until the battle is either won or lost.

Same Time RISK: A Game Turn

Diplomacy Phase

The Diplomacy Phase of RISK I is the time in the game where players are
able to strike alliances and other such deals that may be beneficial to them
in the later phases of the game. Alliances can be formed at various levels
with computer opponents. The system used to negotiate these deals is
known as 1-Com and is covered later in this manual. Please refer to the
1-Com section in order to understand the options available to you during
the Diplomacy Phase.

Reinforcement Phase
After player setup and territory allocation, players receive rein-
forcements. All players place reinforcements at the same time.

===== PAGE 40 =====

The Reinforcement Phase allows each player to introduce new battalions
to the world map as reinforcements.

The calculation used to determine each player's reinforcements in

Same Time RISK is different to the calculation used in Classic RISK.
The computer automatically calculates each player's reinforcement
number and ensures that that the following calculation is used when
determining the number of battalions that will join the players’ armies
as reinforcements.

First, the total number of territories owned by each player is counted.

Then the largest number of territories that are connected by borders or
dowed lines (a player's empire), are also counted.

Finally these 2 numbers are added (the total number of territories owned
and the total number of connected territories); the sum is then divided
by 3 thus giving the total number of reinforcing battalions available to
each player.

1. If you occupy the whole of a continent at the start of your turn,
you receive extra battalions. To control a continent, you must
occupy every territory.in that continent. Reinforcements are

drawn as follows:
Number of Battalions

Continent "Received per Turn
‘Australia 4

South America 4

Africa 5

Europe 6

North America 6

Asia 8

These numbers can, if desired, be modified on the Options menu.
You only receive extra reinforcements from controlling continents
for as long as you occupy all territories of that continent.

2. You may exchange RISK cards to gain extra battalions as
discussed above. RISK cards are acquired through occupying

enemy territories.

===== PAGE 41 =====

Restricted Reinforcement Rules
The Restricted Reinforcement option is activated in Same Time games
so that the placement of reinforcements are limited in quantity, You may
only reinforce a specific territory by the amount of connected territories
plus the reinforced territory itself. For example, if you want to reinforce
China, which had three owned territories attached to it (India, Siam and
Mongolia), the allowable reinforcement is four battalions into China.

Battle Phase

Once all reinforcements have been deployed, players can go into battle!
Unlike Classic RISK, where each player takes his or her turn to go into
battle, Same Time has a different game mechanic. Each player simulta
neously chooses territories to attack and how many armies to go into
battle with. This battle phase continues until all players are satisfied
with their battle plans. Once completed, all of the chosen battles are
resolved in order of priority:

1, Border clashes: head-to-head battles where both armies have
charged directly towards each other's territory and meet head on.

2. Mass invasions: multiple army attacks against a single army
defending a single territory,

3. Invasions: single army attacks into the “back door” of a territory
that has its occupying army either stationary or attacking away
from the invading army into another territory.

4. Spoils of war: a fight between different players after a joint
mass invasion.

5. Surge attacks: an army that has been ordered to charge through a
single territory. If successful in thar battle, the army then moves
on to challenge a second hostile territory.

Tactical Move Phase

Once all battles have been resolved, players are given the option of a
tactical move. Players can transfer battalions from one territory to any
or all friendly neighboring territories. This can only be done from a
territory linked to another by a border or red dotted line.

===== PAGE 42 =====

Dice Rules in Same Time RISK
One of the effects of the Same Time rule set is that of multiple attacking
armies moving against one territory. With up to seven armies fighting it
out over a disputed territory, the need for an elegant battle mechanism is
paramount. Keeping dice at the heart of each battle is also important to
preserve the flavor of RISK.

In Same Time mode, the regular 6-sided dice are replaced with a

single 12-sided die for each battling army. There are 5 different battle
dice, each with a different makeup of face values. Each die is colored
differently to reflect its relative power, from Black through Red, Orange,
Yellow and finally to White. Each colored die reflects the size and
strength of the army it represents. Each battling army is automatically
assigned the appropriate battle dice at the start of each dice roll.

The 5 Battle Dice

Each face of a battle dic carries a single number from | to 6. Each battle
die consists of a different mix of values on its 12 faces, which combine to
determine the rank of the die. Put simply, the White die is biased
towards lower numbers while the Black die is biased to higher numbers.
An army's size determines which die is used in battle. A die used by an
attacking army is identical to a die of the same color used by a defending
army. The thresholds that determine which die gets used, however, are
different for attackers and defenders.

The White Die

The White die is the weakest of the five dice, with no fewer than 4 of
the 12 faces carrying a “I” value.

* Total of all face values: 31

© Average: 2.6
The White die is used for battles involving the following ranges of
army size:

© Attacking army: | to 3
© Defending army: | to 6

===== PAGE 43 =====

The Yellow dic is heavy on 2s, with 25% of all faces carrying that number.
The Yellow die is more powerful than the White, but just barely.

© Total of all face values: 35

© Average: 2.9
The Yellow die is used for battles involving the following ranges of
army size:

© Attacking army: 4 to 7

* Defending army: 7 to 12

{ oy The Orange Die

Measuring just 3.5 on the Richter scale, the Orange die occupies the center
ground. It can dominate against smaller armies.
* Total of all face values: 42
© Average: 3.5
The Orange die is used for battles involving the following ranges of
army size:

© Attacking army: 8 to 12
© Defending army: 13 to 20

C<) The Red Die

Now we're getting somewhere! The Red die is capable of succeeding in the
toughest of conditions.

© Total of all face values: 49
© Average: 4.1
The Red die is used for battles involving the following ranges of army size:

© Attacking army: 13 to 18
© Defending army: 21 or more

===== PAGE 44 =====

6 The Black Die

They don't come any tougher than the Black die. With an average
roll of 4.5, the Black die really takes some stopping. It can be stopped,
though, in its track by a White die if the roll goes against it.

© Total of all face values; 54

© Average: 4.5

The Black die is used for battles involving the following ranges of
army size:

* Attacking army: 19 or more
* Defending army: N/A

One 12-Sided Die Per Army

Each battling army rolls one 12-sided die, The weighting, described
above, replaces the multiple dice mechanism from the Classic game.

You will experience many different emotions as your die changes color
during battle. Imagine the shock of seeing your army start in a dominant
position with the Black die only to see it take high casualties and end up
rolling the White die!

Resolving Combat

Individual comparisons are made between the defending army's die and
each die belonging to the attacking army, with casualties as the outcome
of each comparison. It makes sense, therefore, that a defending army
that rolls low against multiple attackers, that are rolling high, will suffer
heavy casualties. The reverse will see a defending army inflicting one
casualty on each attacking army — and all with a single roll of the dice!

Casualties

There is a further weighting mechanism that accurately determines the
casualty levels in line with the size of the battle being fought. If you look
upon each of the five battle dice as having a number value, from “1” for
the White die to “5” for the Black die, you will understand the first part
of the simple calculation to determine the numbers of casualties. The
lowest valued die involved in the battle determines the number of casu-
alties per dice comparison.

===== PAGE 45 =====

Example 1

Two Orange dice are up against a defending Red die. The casualry
number will be 3 per dice comparison because the Orange dice are
the lowest rnked and they have a value of 3

Example 2

Three Black dice are attacking a territory with a small resident force,
which rolls a White die. The casualties per comparison are a single
battalion because of the White die.

This system helps keep the correct to the results of battle, speeding
up big battles and slowing down the smaller bartles by way of reduced
casualties. This also reflects the way Napoleonic battles were fought,
with the onslaughts of big armies and the skirmishes of small armies.

Change of Dice During Battle

Each grade of rank of Battle Dice is called into service when an army of
a certain size goes to battle. For example, an attacking army of some 8
battalions will start the battle by rolling the Orange die. If the army were
to lose one or more battalions, reducing its size below the threshold for
the Orange die, future rolls will be made with the Yellow die, which has
a range of between 4 to 7 battalions.

Battalions Defending Selected Dice

Battalions Attacking

===== PAGE 46 =====

Number Split L 2 3 4 5 6
2 2 2 1 1

4
2

The RISK II Tournament

RISK II includes a single-player Tournament game that consists of 16
campaigns played in sequence. As long as you either win the game or
remain in the game at its conclusion, having killed at least one oppo-
nent, you receive tournament points (based on your achievements in the
game). You also have the option to move on to the next game in
sequence or retry the existing game in an attempt to better your score.

Points System

© = If you are killed in the game: 0 points. This brings an end to this
tournament.

© If you have the most troops at game end: 30 points. This is also
awarded to you if you have the same number of troops as your
opponent.

* If you kill one or more opponents: 20 points for each kill.
If you win the game: 150 points.

© If you win with a draw: 100 points (in Same Time only).

===== PAGE 47 =====

Max Points No.of Al Al Quality

Election/Marual

‘To progress to the next game, you must either:
* Win the game or
* Defeat one or more opponents and stay alive to the end of
the game

High Scores

The High score table consists of 12 slots, each of which is filled with an
Al player and a current high score. When you complete game 16 or are
eliminated from the tournament, your point total and name are added to
the table assuming, of course, that your score is high enough.

===== PAGE 48 =====

The Globe

This option is available
instead of the flat map. To
rotate the globe, move the
cursor to either the right or
left edge of the screen. This
will allow you to see the
whole world and manipulate
your battle strategies in the
same way as on the flar map.

The RISK II map has many
options. The game type
options affecting the map can
be accessed in the Game
Options and Map setup
screens. You can enable or
disable six additional territo-
ries that were not included in
the original game. By adding
these territories, the game
becomes more balanced and
each player starts with equal territories, . which is more realistic compared
to the real-world atlas. It is also possible to modify the continent rewards
on this same screen. The map can be zoomed in and out and moved
around in zoom mode, using either the mouse and on-screen buttons

or the numeric keypad on your key board (+ and - 200m in and out;
numbers | through 9 move the map around when zoomed in).

You can also turn on options to clearly see troop concentration, border
threats, connected empires and other game-specific data. These View
Modifier options can be used on the flat map and the globe. To access the
View Modifier, click the View button.

===== PAGE 49 =====

] Continent Colors
This view shows each conti-
nent as a different color and

is enabled by default.

Ownership

This shows which territories
belong to each player. Each
territory is shown in that
player's different color.

Border Threats

This view gives the view of
borders that are in danger of
being attacked by your oppo-
nents. Blue represents a bor-
der that is safe from attack.
The colors then graduate
towards bright red, which
indicates a high probability

of attack.

===== PAGE 50 =====

Troop Strength

This view shows the relative
troop strength in numbers for
each territory asa color,
Weaker troop strengths are
shown in blue, graduating to
red for the strongest troop
strength,

Connected Empire

This view shows each play-
er's largest empire. An
empire represents a series of
connected territories, the
largest of which is used for
] the reinforcement calcula-
tion during Same Time
gameplay. If two groups

of territories are equal in
number, both are shown.

I-Com

1-Com (Iconic Communication) provides a communication facility
between a human player and the Al opponents. |-Com can only be
used when a single human player is playing against multiple computer
players. When there is more than one human player, the Com button
is disabled.

There are four icons available for use:

J This icon is the only one of the four that does not require a
response from the recipient. Use this icon as a threatening or
goading tool. For example, if an Al player has recently double-
crossed or offended you in any way, you might want to use this
icon as a response. Of course, Al players may themselves feel
the need to send such a statement to you!

===== PAGE 51 =====

Use this icon to suggest a Level | alliance. Level 1 alliances
require both parties to avoid attacking each other's wholly-owned
continents or largest connected empire. Other territories are
considered fair game.

=a Use this icon to suggest a Level 2 alliance. Level 2 alliances
require both parties to avoid attacking each other's territories.
This alliance does, however, allow a single attack into an
insignificant territory for RISK card purposes.

Use this icon to suggest a Level 3 alliance. Level 3 alliances
BC HEE require both parties to avoid attacking each other in any way.
The agreement rules out attacks of any kind against the player.

Break this one against an Al player and be prepared to suffer
the consequences.

I-Com in Same Time RISK

For Same Time games, each game round starts with a diplomacy phase
(discussed above), allowing informal alliances to be formed between any
two players. The I-Com phase encompasses the following events:

1. All computer players check the adherence (if any) to agreements
made in the previous tum and then update their attitudes
accordingly.

2. Human players also check on last turn’s agreements.
3. All players then propose (if they so wish) any new alliances.

4. After receiving a proposal, the computer and human players
consider a response and send it.

5. On completion of the diplomacy phase, all alliance details involving
each player are displayed on the relevant player’s Com panel,

Any proposals that are accepted by the recipient are recorded and last for
the current game turn only.

===== PAGE 52 =====

I-Com in Classic RISK

For Classic RISK games, each game round starts with a diplomacy phase
(discussed above), allowing formal alliances to be formed between any
two players. The I-Com phase encompasses the following events:

1. Each player has the ability to make a proposal of alliance to any
other Al player at the beginning of his or her game turn.

2. The receiving player is then requested to respond by agreeing to
the proposal or declining the offer.

3. Any proposals that are accepted by the recipient are recorded and
last for the duration of the current player's tum. At the end of the
recipient's next turn, the alliance is deemed over.

Player Information and Stats

Once play is in full flow, you
may want to see just how
well you and your opponents
are doing or perhaps what
reinforcements you can
expect. The Info Panel in
the main game interface
gives you in-depth player
details. The panel shows
cach player's standing in the
game and are dependent on
the game option.

a. Number of territories each player occupies

b. Number of continents each player occupies

c. Number of connected empires each player has

d. Total number of troops each player has

e. Expected reinforcements each player will
receive on their next tum

f. Number of cards each player holds

g Number of capitals each player occupies

===== PAGE 53 =====

The Battle View

At the end of a game, whether
you win or lose, you are
presented with a post-game
statistics graph which shows
various statistics throughout

each of the game turns. You

can review your performance
from every angle, on a
tum -by-turn basis.

RISK IL uses a cinematic battle
scene that both confirms the
setup of the proposed battle
and the outcome of the subse-
quent challenge. The battle
view takes the player down to
the actual territory in which
the war is taking place. As
each player rolls the dice, the
battalions in the background
move into battle and the

subsequent wins and losses are visually displayed. This is a great way to

build the suspense and drive home the reality of a win-or-lose situation.

You can, if you wish, play the game without the battle scenes in place and
merely use the dice comparison to confirm the win or loss in each battle.
Though much less visually interesting, the dice-only option does make for
a faster game. To select dice comparisons only, go to the Preferences screen
and uncheck the “Battle View" box. This will disable the battle views and
enable the dice comparisons. If you require even faster results, you can
select “Fast Dice” from the same menu. This removes the dice animation

and instead gives you an instant win-lose result

===== PAGE 54 =====

CuapTER 10: STRATEGIES AND TACTICS
This section has been compiled using the design and development team’s
own strategies and tactics. These tactics have been finely honed over many
thousands of game sessions played during the development process of this
game. Some are more “risky” than others, but all are strategies used regular-
ly by the dichard players of the RISK Il development team.

—Jon L. (Creative Director)

Classic RISK

Defend your front-line.

Be sure to defend your continents,

Whittle down the strongest player's troops.

Hold off trading cards until you have a good set (Set Value).

Hold off trading cards until the value has increased (Ascending).

Keep your mission in mind and try to deduce your opponents’

objectives.

*¢ Wherever possible, expand your empire without increasing your
front-line exposure.

ne Time RISK
Bring all your forces to bear on your targets.

© Never attack with inferior dice colors unless you really have to.

* Make sure your connected empire is secure. The number of bonus
reinforcements to be gained is surprisingly high.

¢ Attacking in many directions in one tur can gain you a lot of
ground, Use the Reinforcement Phase to consolidate your position.

© Try to keep your territories well connected in order to facilitate
reinforcement. If you are in a position where you can reinforce
quicker than your opponent, you will quickly gain che upper hand.
For example, if Africa and South America are owned by different
players, the player reinforcing in South Africa can place four battal
ions per turn, whereas the player in the Falklands can only place
two. (North Africa and Brazil are even, both able to accept
four each.)

*® When attacking a strong defender (he’s rolling a Black die) from
multiple territories, try to attack with at least one lower-ranking die;
otherwise, the casualty rate will be shocking. Rolling the lower-
ranking die will increase the number of rolls in which your number

===== PAGE 55 =====

of armies advantage will be active. Since a defender wins on a
draw, he'll only do one damage to each of your armies when he
rolls a six. If all dice were Black, he'd cause five casualties on
each!

Steve B. (Art Director)

Is there more than one troop in this territory? If the answer is Yes,
attack, attack, attack. Repeat until game is lost.

Past H. (Programming Manager)

Try to own the territories you have RISK cards for, especially in
the early rounds when every battalion counts.

Don’t spread yourself too thin; there's always a next turn,

Watch other players’ movements and try co predict their missions.

* Always cry to have all your territories in a connected empire for a
large reinforcement bonus. Don’t forget your surge.

* Ifyou can keep two territories outside your continent on each
border, then the continent cannot be invaded even with a surge.

Rares Buckner (Development Director)

Use your surge attack to surprise your enemies. There’s usually an
opportunity to use the surge attack co get behind an enemy front
line. Once there, your army will be very difficult to remove.

© Always be mindful of the reinforcement limitations when playing
Same Time RISK. Occupy territories in clusters such that their
reinforcement capabilities remain high.

.

‘Try wo break up an opponent's largest connected empire. Quite
often there will be a weak point somewhere in their chain of
linked territories. Similarly, look to protect your own connected
empire by careful placement of reinforcements.

RISK cards: ensure that you commit to enough battles to
guarantee taking at least one new territory, Unlike the Classic
game, you have just one opportunity to issue your battle orders.
Dice thresholds: observe the size of your armies that occupy key
territories. It is often the case that the addition of one extra
battalion will result in that army rolling a higher-ranking die, thus
increasing the army's chance of success in battle.

Attack a large army on multiple fronts. Providing you have armies
of sufficient size, it is often beneficial to attack a large army across
multiple borders at the same time.

===== PAGE 56 =====

© Capture a continent. Unlike the Classic game, it is worth capturing
a continent even if you are left with weak borders. The extra
reinforcements gained by owning the continent can be used to
strengthen your borders before an opponent has the opportunity to
launch a counterattack.

© Prevent an opponent from capturing a continent. If you own the
only territory in a continent that is otherwise owned by an opponent,
that territory is sure to come under attack as the opponent attempts
to capture the continent. Rather than remaining static and fighting
it our, attack with your army into a neighboring territory within the
same continent. A moving target is very difficult to pin down.

APPENDIX: THE History OF RISK

In the summer of 1957, a Mr. Boisseau of Miro approached Parker Brothers
with La Conquete du Monde, a game invented by the French writer and
movie producer Albert Lamorisse, best known for his award-winning film
The Red Balloon.

After extensive testing, the French game's rules were adapted for
American tastes, and in 1959 Parker Brothers launched the RISK
Continental Game. In the introduction to the first set of rules, a
Parker Brothers gamer wrote:

You are about to play the most unusual game that has
appeared in many years. It is not difficult, but because it is
so different, you will find it worthwhile to read the rules
completely through before starting play. No attempt has
been made to teach a strategy, as each player will develop
his own as he becomes familiar with the game.

After more than 40 years in service, RISK has sold millions

of games, and families all over the world enjoy playing this

classic game. You can even compete in world championship

RISK tournaments.

===== PAGE 57 =====

St 2 Ee

TECHNICAL SUPPORT (U.S. & Canada)

Up-to-the-minute technical information about Infogrames Interactive
products is generally available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week via the
Internet at:

http://www.ina-support.com

Through this site you'll have access to our FAQ (Frequently Asked
Questions) documents, our FTP (File Transfer Protocol) area where

you can download patches if needed, our Hints/Cheat Codes if they're
available, and an E-Mail area where you can get help and ask questions if
you do not find your answers within the FAQ.

Note: In the event we must send you a Hint Sheet, FAQ document, patch
or update dise via E-mail, we may require verifiable consent from a parent
or guardian in order to protect children’s privacy and safety online.
Consent Forms are available at the web site listed above.

Vi
For phone assistance, call Infogrames Interactive Tech Support at

(425) 951-7108, Our Interactive Voice Response and Faxback system is
generally available 24/7, providing automated support and allowing FAQ
documents to be faxed to you immediately.

Great News! We've improved our Automated Systems so that you can get
product-specific Troubleshooting help more quickly. All you need to do is
enter the product's Part # when prompted to do so. This will take you
directly to all of our known issues and solutions for this title. The product's
Part # is located in several places (on the CD label, package and/or

plastic dise case) and is usually identified by a number such as 04-12345.
When prompted by the Automated System, enter the last five digits of
your product's Part #. (For example, Part # 04-12345 would require that
you enter the “12345” portion of the number for that product.) Note:
Some products simply feature a five-digit Part # without an “04-" prefix.

Live support is generally available Monday through Friday, 8:00 AM
until 6:00 PM (Pacific Time). Note: We may be closed on major
holidays.

===== PAGE 58 =====

Before making your call, we ask that you be at your computer, have the
following information available, and be ready to take notes.

* System Make and Model

* Processor Type

* Operating System, including version number if possible (such as
Windows" 95; Windows" Me) |

* RAM (Memory) |

© Any screen or error messages you've encountered (and where)

You may also fax in your Technical Support questions or problems to:
(425) 806-0480, or write to the address below,

Product Return Procedures in the United States & Canada

In the event our technicians at (425) 951-7108 determine that you
need to forward materials directly to us, please include a brief letter
explaining what is enclosed and why. Make sure you include the Return
Merchandise Authorization Number (RMA#) supplied to you by the
technician, and your telephone number in case we need to call you. Any
materials not containing this RMA will be returned to you
unprocessed. Send your materials to the following address:

Infogrames Interactive, Inc.
Attn: TS/CS Dept.

13110 NE 177th Place

Suite * B101, Box 180
Woodinville, WA 98072-9965
RMA #

===== PAGE 59 =====

INFOGRAMES WEB SITES
Infogrames has exciting, full and active web sites dedicated to ensure you get
the most out of your new games. You can visit us at:
http://www.us.infogrames.com
Kids, check with your parent or guardian before visiting any web site.
Visit and you will discover that Infogrames web sites contain such things as:
© Technical Support © Hints and Tips

* Demos © Interviews
* Competitions © Community
* And much more

We are constantly updating our web sites so stop by and visit us frequently.
With events and new additions planned, you won't want to miss out.

===== PAGE 60 =====

CREDITS
Deep Red

Kevin Buckner
Director

Clive Robert
Director
Steve Beverley
Art Director

Jon Law

Creative Director
Paul Howarth
Programming Manager

Suzanne Maddison

Grahame Curtis
Artist

Keith Taylor
Programmer
John White

Programmer

Kenny Lacey
Artist

Simon Roper
Programmer
Brad Cooper
Programmer

Dan McDaid
Tester

Matthew McSherry
Tester

Atia Riaz

Tester

Ellen Dawson
Office Manager
Peter Blenkinsop
Consultant

Infogrames
Interactive, Inc,

Matt Collins
Product Manager
Bill Levay
Executive Producer
Steve Arthur
Director of Marketing
Steve Martin
Director of Creative Services
Elizabeth Mackney
Director of Editorial @
Documentation Services
Randi Kravitz

Writer
Paul Collin
Copywriter

Special Thanks
Marwan Abderrazzaq
Marisa Ong

===== PAGE 61 =====

LICENSE AGREEMENT

*** IMPORTANT ***

This is a legal agreement between the end user (“You") and Hasbro
Interactive, Inc., its affiliates and subsidiaries (collectively “Hasbro
Interactive”), This Agreement is of a package (the “Package”) that
also includes a CD-ROM disc (collectively, the “CD-ROM”) and certain
written materials (the “Documentation”).

BY INSTALLING THE CD-ROM, YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU
HAVE READ ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS
AGREEMENT, UNDERSTAND THEM, AND AGREE TO BE BOUND
BY THEM. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT, IF YOU PURCHASED THE
PACKAGE FROM AN AUTHORIZED RESELLER OF HASBRO
INTERACTIVE, THAT RESELLER IS NOT HASBRO INTERACTIVE'S
AGENT AND IS NOT AUTHORIZED TO MAKE ANY REPRESENTA-
TIONS, CONDITIONS OR WARRANTIES, STATUTORY OR OTHER-
WISE, ON HASBRO INTERACTIVE'S BEHALF NOR TO VARY ANY
OF THE TERMS OR CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT,

If You do not agree to the terms of this Agreement, iptly return the
entire Package to the place You obtained it for a full refund.

LIMITED LICENSE: You are entitled to use this CD-ROM for your own
use, but may not sell or transfer reproductions of the CD-ROM or
Documentation to other parties in any way. You may use one copy of the
CD-ROM on a single terminal connected to a single computer. You may
not network the CD-ROM or otherwise use it on more than one computer
or computer terminal at the same time.

You acknowledge that Hasbro Interactive is not responsible for the Internet
or whether it should continue to exist in its present form or whether or not
a government or governmental agency, either foreign or domestic, will con-
trol, regulate or disband the Internet.

WEEN COPYRIGHT: ae to gery SOkOM and the ¥ ‘
umentation, tents, copyrights all other property rights appli-
cable thereto, shall avail times remain solely and exclusively with Hasbro
Interactive and its licensors, and You shall not take any action inconsistent
with such title. The CD-ROM and the Documentation are protected
United States, Canadian and other applicable laws and by international
treaty provisions. Any rights not expressly granted herein are reserved to
Hasbro Interactive and its licensors.

OTHER RESTRICTIONS: You may not cause or permit the disclosure,
copying, renting, licensing, sublicensing, leasing, disseminating or other-
wise distributing of the CD-ROM or the Documentation by any means or
in any form, without the prior written consent of Hasbro Interactive. You
may not modify, enhance, supplement, create derivative work

from, adapt, translate, reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble or
otherwise reduce the CD-ROM to human readable form,

===== PAGE 62 =====

LIMITED WARRANTY:
Hasbro Interactive warrants for a period of ninety (90) days following origi-
nal retail hase of this copy of the game that the CD-ROM is free from
substantial errors or defects that will materially interfere with the operation
of the CD-ROM as described in the Documentation. This limited warranty
applies to the initial ee only. EXCEPT AS STATED ABOVE,
SBRO INTERACTIVE MAKES NO OTHER WARRANTY OR
CONDITION, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHER-
WISE, REGARDING THIS CD-ROM. THE IMPLIED WARRANTY
THAT THE CD-ROM IS FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND.
THE IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY SHALL BOTH
BE LIMITED TO THE NINETY (90) DAY DURATION OF THIS LIM-
ITED EXPRESS WARRANTY. THESE AND ANY OTHER IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE,
ARE OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY AND SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMED.
Some jurisdictions do not allow limitations on how long an implied war-
ranty or condition lasts, so the above limitation may not apply to You. This
limited warranty gives You specific legal rights, and you may also have
other rights which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.

If you believe you have found any such error or defect in the CD-ROM
during the warranty period, (i) if you are in the United States, call Hasbro
Interactive's Consumer Affairs tment at 800-683-5847 between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:45p.m. Monday through Friday (Eastern Time),
holidays excluded, and provide your Product number; or (ii) if you are our-
side the United States, send your original CD-ROM dise to Hasbro
Interactive at Caswell Way, Newport, Gwent, NP9 OYH, United Ki
together with a dated proof of purchase, your Product number, a bri
description of such error or defect and the address to which it is to be
retumed, If you have a lem resulting from a manufacturing defect in
the CD-ROM, Hasbro Interactive's entire liability and Your exclusive rem-
edy for breach of this limited warranty shall be the replacement of the CD-
ROM, within a reasonable of time and without charge, with a cor-
rected version of the CD-ROM. jurisdictions do not allow the exclu-
sion or limitation of relief, incidental or consequential damages, so the
above limitation or exclusion may not apply to You.

HASBRO INTERACTIVE SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, EXEMPLARY OR OTHER INDI-
RECT DAMAGES, EVEN IF HASBRO INTERACTIVE IS ADVISED
OF OR AWARE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. IN NO.
EVENT SHALL HASBRO INTERACTIVE'S LIABILITY EXCEED THE
PURCHASE PRICE OF THIS PACKAGE. Some jurisdictions do not
allow the exclusion or limitation of special, incidental, consequential, indi-
rect or exemplary damages, or the limitation of liability to specified
amounts, so the above limitation or exclusion may not apply to You.

===== PAGE 63 =====

GENERAL: This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding
between Hasbro Interactive and You with respect to subject matter here-
of. Any change to this Agreement must be in writing, signed by Hasbro
Interactive and You. Terms and conditions as set forth in any purchase
order which differ from, conflict with, or are not included in this
Agreement, shall not become part of this Agreement unless specifically
accepted by Hasbro Interactive in writing. You shall be responsible for
and shall pay, and shall reimburse Hasbro Interactive on. senuest if
Hasbro Interactive is required to pay, any sales, use, value added (VAT),
consumption or other tax (excluding any tax that is based on Hasbro
Interactive's net income), assessment, duty, tariff, or other fee or charge
of any kind or nature that is levied or imposed by any governmental
authority on the Package.

EXPORT AND IMPORT COMPLIANCE: In the event You export
the CD-ROM or the Documentation from the country in which You first
received it, You assume the responsibility for compliance with all appli-
cable export and re-export regulations, as the case may be.

GOVERNING LAW; ARBITRATION: This Agreement shall be gov-
ered by, and any arbitration hereunder shall apply, the laws of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, U.S.A., excluding (a) its conflicts of
laws principles; (b) the United Nations Convention on Contracts for
the International Sale of Goods; (c) the 1974 Convention on the
Limitation Period in the International Sale of Goods; and (d) the
Proeetl amending the 1974 Convention, done at Vienna April 11,

Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this
Agreement or to a fees hereof, including its interpretation, perform-
ance or termination, shall be finally resolved by arbitration. arbitra-
tion shall be conducted by three (3) arbitrators, one to be appointed by
Hasbro Interactive, one to be appointed by You and a third being nomi-
nated by the two arbitrators so selected or, if they cannot agree on a
third arbitrator, by the President of the American Arbitration
Association (“AAA”), The arbitration shall be conducted in English and
in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. The
arbitration, including the rendering of the award, shall take place in
Boston, Massachusetts, and shall be the exclusive forum for resolving
such dispute, controversy or claim. The decision of the arbitrators shall
be binding upon the parties hereto, and the expense of the arbitration
(including without limitation the award of attorneys’ fees to the prevail-
ing party) shall be paid as the arbitrators determine. The decision of the
siblerninee shall be executory, and ji ent thereon may be entered by
any court of competent jurisdiction. Notwithstanding anything con-
tained in this Paragraph to the contrary, Hasbro Interactive shall have
the right to institute judicial proceedings against You or anyone acting
by, through or ander Ye . in order to enforce Hasbro Interactive's rights
hereunder through reformation of contract, specific performance, injunc-

tion or similar equitable relief.

===== PAGE 64 =====

© 2000 Infogrames Interactive, Inc. All Rights Reserved, Manufactured
and marketed by Infogrames, Inc., New York, NY. All trademarks are
the property of their respective owners.

| RISK lea eradeinark of Histo and is used with pérmisiton.
© 2000 Hasbro. All Rights Reserved

HASBRO and its logo are trademarks of Hasbro,

Windows and DirectX are either registered trademarks or trademarks of
Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.

Pentium ts a trademark of registered trademark of Incel Corporation
or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries,

02202

